ssot.rst, before:

IATI Standard (Single Source of Truth)
======================================

From 1.04, the IATI Documentation of the IATI Standard will be built from a "Single Source of Truth" (SSOT), which consists of several GitHub repositories.

See also, the original :doc:`proposal <ssot/proposal>`.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   ssot/proposal

Repositories
------------

* `IATI-Standard-SSOT <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Standard-SSOT>`__ the main SSOT repository, which contains the following as submodules:
    - `IATI-Extra-Documentation <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Extra-Documentation>`__
    - `IATI-Schemas <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Schemas>`__
    - `IATI-Codelists <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Codelists>`__
    - `IATI-Rulesets <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Rulesets>`__

In addition there are codelists in another repository `IATI-Codelists-NonEmbedded <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Codelists-NonEmbedded>`__ which are not Embedded, that is any changes to them do not need to go through the Update process. Since it is versioned seperately, this is not a submodule of the IATI-Standard-SSOT repository.

The documentation on http://dev.iatistandard.org/ is then built then built from the contents of these repositories, and also two repositories containing documentation that is not specific to a particular version of the standard: `IATI-Guidance <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Guidance>`__ and `IATI-Developer-Documentation <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Developer-Documentation>`__.

Branches
--------

There is no master branch, since the IATI Update process means that a "general development" branch is not really appropriate. Instead there is a branch for each version of the standard - both those that have been released, and those that are in development. These are named ``version-<version number>``, e.g. ``version-1.04`` and ``version-2.01``.

Any changes that need review should be done on feature branches.

Tags
----

When each version is released, it is tagged (e.g. v1.04). Tags are static, and will not allow you to follow any fixes made to that version of the standard. For that, use branches instead.

Versions prior to 1.04
----------------------

Prior to 1.04 the only github repository was IATI-Schemas, so this is the only repository with tags and branches for 1.01, 1.02 and 1.03.

Commit message:

[IATI/IATI-Standard-SSOT#6] Fix TODOs in proposal document

ssot.rst, after:

IATI Standard (Single Source of Truth)
======================================

From 1.04, the IATI Documentation of the IATI Standard will be built from a "Single Source of Truth" (SSOT), which consists of several GitHub repositories.

See also, the original :doc:`proposal <ssot/proposal>`.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   ssot/proposal

Repositories
------------

* `IATI-Standard-SSOT <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Standard-SSOT>`__ the main SSOT repository, which contains the following as submodules:
    - `IATI-Extra-Documentation <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Extra-Documentation>`__
    - `IATI-Schemas <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Schemas>`__
    - `IATI-Codelists <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Codelists>`__
    - `IATI-Rulesets <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Rulesets>`__

In addition there are codelists in another repository `IATI-Codelists-NonEmbedded <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Codelists-NonEmbedded>`__ which are not Embedded, that is any changes to them do not need to go through the Update process. Since it is versioned seperately, this is not a submodule of the IATI-Standard-SSOT repository.

The documentation on http://dev.iatistandard.org/ is then built then built from the contents of these repositories, and also two repositories containing documentation that is not specific to a particular version of the standard: `IATI-Guidance <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Guidance>`__ and `IATI-Developer-Documentation <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Developer-Documentation>`__.

Finding a specific version of the SSOT
--------------------------------------

This can be done via:

* branches, which may change for typos and bugfixes e.g. ``version-1.04``, see :ref:`ssot-branches`
* tags, which point to the exact commit on the day of release e.g. ``v1.04``, see :ref:`ssot-tags`

Versions prior to 1.04
----------------------

Prior to 1.04 the only github repository was IATI-Schemas, so this is the only repository with tags and branches for 1.01, 1.02 and 1.03.
